# AI Trip Planner

AI Trip Planner is an AI-powered web application for generating personalized travel itineraries. It integrates key technologies and APIs to offer a seamless user experience.

## Features

- **Google Authentication**: Secure login with Google account.
- **Destination Selection**: Google Places Autocomplete for easy location input.
- **AI Itinerary Generation**: Custom travel plans generated by AI based on user preferences.
- **Firebase Storage**: Save and retrieve trip data using Firebase Firestore.
- **Responsive Design**: Modern UI with Tailwind CSS.

## Technologies Used

- **Frontend**: React, Vite
- **Backend**: Firebase Firestore
- **Authentication**: Google OAuth
- **APIs**: Google Places API, Custom AI Model API
- **UI Components**: Radix UI, Tailwind CSS

## Getting Started

### Prerequisites

- Node.js
- npm or yarn
- Google API Key
- Google Gemini Key
- Firebase Project Setup

### Installation

1. Clone the repository:
   ```bash
   git clone https://github.com/nikhil-wg/ai-trip-planner.git
   ```

2. Navigate to the project directory:
   ```bash
   cd ai-trip-planner
   ```

3. Install dependencies:
   ```bash
   npm install
   # or
   yarn install
   ```

4. Set up environment variables:
   - Create a `.env` file in the root directory.
   - Add your Google API Key and Firebase configuration:
     ```env
     VITE_GOOGLE_PLACE_API_KEY=your-google-api-key
     VITE_GOOGLE_AUTH_CLIENT_ID=your-google-auth-client-id
     VITE_GOOGLE_FIREBASE_API_KEY=your key
     VITE_GOOGLE_GEMINI_AI_API_KEY=your key
     ```

5. Start the development server:
   ```bash
   npm run dev
   # or
   yarn dev
   ```

6. Open your browser and go to `http://localhost:5173` to view the app.

### Building for Production

To build the project for production:
```bash
npm run build
# or
yarn build
```

## Future Plans
- Implement My trip page 
- Add multi-language support

## Thank You!
Thank you for checking out this project! Feel free to contribute or give feedback.


